Week 1 
   Sept 11, 2025 
        Formed our groups for team projects. Familiarized ourselves with journal entries on GitHub. 
        No AI was used but I believed I should document something for the first day of jouranaling. 

    Sept 12, 2025
        Used AI (ChatGPT) to detect discrepancies in MySQL for a lab assignemntm involving the beginner statements (SELECT, ORDER BY, and CONCAT).

    Sept 13, 2025 
        Used AI (ChatGPT) to explore/research beginner AIML projects and their scopes. 
        I have yet to make a decision on a project but I do enjoy learning more about AIML.

    Sept 14, 2025 
        Asked ChatGpt why use .format strings as suggested in Week 1 excercise.
        It gave me 4-5 reasons.
            1. Its cleaner than concatenation.
                Example code
                name = "Mylo"
                age = 21
                # Using concatenation
                s = "My name is " + name + " and I am " + str(age) + " years old."
                # Using .format()
                s = "My name is {} and I am {} years old.".format(name, age)

            2. It is reusable and flexible. We can specify 
                Example code:
                s = "Coordinates: {1}, {0}".format("Y", "X")  # Output: "Coordinates: X, Y"
                s = "Hello {0}, meet {0}".format("Mylo")      # Output: "Hello Mylo, meet Mylo"

            3. Formatting numbers and values. .format() lets you control width, precision, alignment, etc.
                Example code:
                pi = 3.14159
                s = "Pi rounded to 2 decimals: {:.2f}".format(pi)  # "Pi rounded to 2 decimals: 3.14"

            4. Named placeholders.
                Example code: 
                s = "Name: {name}, Age: {age}".format(name="Mylo", age=21)

            5. But nowadays, f-stringd are preffered because of they're shorter, faster, and more readable. 
                Example code: 
                name = "Mylo"
                age = 21
                s = f"My name is {name} and I am {age} years old."

            All in all. .format and f-strings methods are the preffered ways building strings dynamically because of their fasters and shorter process.

            

Week 2 
    Sept 18, 2025 
        Testing sync changes in journals from Visual Code.  
    
    Sept 20, 2025
        Experimented with ChatGPT, Claude, and DeepSeek to which would be a useful resource in making my dashboard project. 
        Was introduced to Perplexity and explored its functions. 

    Sept 21, 2025 
        Had Claude explain to me Python concept like for and while loops, the meaning of "in range" in statements, and the significance of enumerating.


Week 3

    Sept 23, 2025 
        Most of my queries were regarding the Week 3 exercise assignment. 
        Mostly clarifying/demostrating Python concepts and interpreting a few the tasks in exercises. 
        For example, I learned about the zip() function while completing Exercise 11. specifying this function ensured
        both list were being iterated simultaneously rather then iterating through a whole list before looking at the other. 

        Exercise 11 Code: 
                

                def books_by_author_fuzzy(titles, authors, author_query):
                    matching_titles = []
                    for title, author in zip(titles, authors): # Use zip to iterate through both lists simultaneously
                        if author.strip().lower() == author_query.strip().lower():
                            matching_titles.append(title)
                    return matching_titles

    Sept 25, 2025 
        Recieved feedback on Week 02 Exercise. 
        
        Logging feedback here for referencing purposes:
        Problem 22 - "Uses .split("7") which only works if first digit is 7. Fails for other call numbers like "QA85.73.P98". Should loop until finding any digit. "
            Hard coded "7", Should loop unil finding any digt. 
        
        Problem 27 - Always prints warning, no conditional check. Should only warn if lengths don't match.4

Week 4 
    Oct 1, 2025
        Used Claude to breif me the most common functions and concepts used in Python.
        Used ChatGPT to develop an init file for our Group Project - Data Summurizing Dashboard.

    Oct 4, 2025 
        Used ChatGPT to research all career paths in Information Science. 
        Organized them in catergories of interest, salary, locations and other attribbutes. 


Week 5 
    Oct 7, 2025 
        Used ChatGPT to generate and organize a few functions for my team's dashboard project (setup logger (), 
                                                                                                load_library_data,
                                                                                                validate input(),
                                                                                                create_report(), and
                                                                                                generate_dashboard(),
                                                                                                ) 
        (Indented as such to form the habit of good Python code style)

        After that generate a few functions, I had guide in testing these functions which involved 
        making a new folder in the directory with sample data (data/sample_data.csv).

        STOPPED AT TRYING TO RUN TEST EXAMPLE AT APRROX 2:07 PM 

    Oct 11 to 12, 20225
    Used ChatGPT and Claude to revise the code for Week 5 exercises and team project.

Week 6 
    Oct 21, 2025 
        I was inspired by Professor Dempwolf using Claude AI in this meta-cognitive-(I forgot the last word haaha)
        practice, helping him organize his thoughts and projects. That being said, I decided to take a simliar approach with my 
        AI practices for organizing my knowledge in the subjects pertaining to this course and others.

    Oct 23, 2025 
        Began working on Project 02 assignment involving organizing functions into clasess.
        I asked ChatGPT to organized functions in 4 core classes, reflecting the number of team members. 

    Oct 25, 2025 
        Completed Week 6 exercise. I used Chat GPT for explanations on their class methods and and external python libaries.
        Additionally, I relied on Gemini for debugging and explaning causes of error. 

Week 7 
    Oct 27, 2025 
        I experimented with using generative chatbots to help organize my thinking while dealing with exercises.        
        I looked at chatbots like ChatGPT, Claude, Perplexity, and Gemini while researching ways to improve my study plan with
        generative tools.

Week 8 
    Nov 5, 2025
        (1) I prompted ChatGPT to draft a design of an inheritance hierarchy for a Library Information Management domain. 
        (2) ChatGPT made an inheritance hierarchy for our SystemManager class. SystemManager was the base class and StorageSystemMananger and MonitoringSystemManager were created as sub-classes. 
        (3) ChatGPT successfully created inherited relationships between classes as their specialties are clearly defined through their code.  For example, StorageSystemManager inherits the add_component and system_report functions from the base SystemManager class. 
        (4) The code seems to be fine. If anything, we need to some refining on our end with code organization and continuity. 
        (5) Finally, through this process I learned the characteristics that make up an inheritance hierarchy. 

    Nov 6, 2025 
        1. Dataset Setup: We downloaded and extracted the Library Management System Kaggle dataset, 
        then confirmed the CSV files (books.csv, members.csv, etc.) were present locally.


        2. Project Folder Organization: We clarified that the dataset should be moved
            into the project’s data/library_management_system/ folder to be accessible by scripts.


        3. Verification Script: I provided a verify_dataset.py script to load
            and preview all CSV files using pandas to ensure they are correctly readable.


        4. Python Environment & Pandas: We installed pandas in your Python environment
            and verified it was available for use, including handling PowerShell path and module errors.


        5. Requirements Management: We discussed creating a requirements.txt file, 
            both full (via pip freeze) and minimal (only essential packages: pandas, numpy, kaggle, SQLAlchemy) for GitHub.


        6. GitHub Considerations: We covered syncing local clones with remote GitHub changes
            and noted that a README added via GitHub must be pulled to appear in the local clone.


        7. Installation-focused README: I drafted a concise README.md with step-by-step installation instructions,
            including Python version, optional virtual environment, package installation, Kaggle setup, and dataset verification

Week 9
   November 15, 2025 
      I was curious to know other LLM's approach to building my group's project, so I asked Claude and Perplexity to create a minimal dashboard using 15 functions split into four classes
      that will experience inheritante, polymorphismm, and composition. Perplexity had code that used inheritance by having Button and Chart classes inherit from a common Widget base class. Polymorphism was praticed by overriding display() in child classes, and composition through a Dashboard class that manages multiple widget objects. For Claude, right of the bat I relaized that I should have specified class names and (maybe) a method quanity for each class. Nonetheless, Claude AI provided me with a similar approach; for instance, the inheritance hierarchy was split into a Task base class and two derived classes (UrgentTask and RecurringTask). For polymorphic behavior, All task types have get_status() and get_type(), but each implements it differently. Finally, in composition, the Dashboard class uses components from the NotificationSystem and TaskFilter classes.


Week 10
   November 19, 2025 
      Given my group's decision in redoing our project from the beginning, I am taking this opportunity to use Claude AI in understanding and completing the assignemets related to this project. In this new approach, I aim to practice better prompting and have a clearer vision of what we want this project to be. I have already constructed a prompt that asks Claude to create a comprehensive checklist for our dashboard project and aim to complete all the task by Sunday, November 19, 2025. 
      However, what will be submitted from Project 3 will differ from its respective section in our cumulative project. In an effort not to rush - too much - on our new project, we will be submitting a sample code of what it may look like in our final submission. Concepts like ABCs, Polymorphism, Inheritance, and Composition will be relevant to the situation we are discussing in our project. 


